welcome back to movies explained today
we are looking at the 2019 movie
bavarian
the opening scene depicts the parasitic
life cycle of cuckoos starting with a
cuckoo depositing her egg in the nest of
another bird the cuckoo chick pushes the
other baby birds out of the nest and by
the end has grown noticeably larger than
its surrogate mother who continues
feeding it a schoolteacher gemma is
making the kids pretend to be trees she
starts acting like a tree and the kids
follow her the class ends and gemma is
heading out along with the children she
talks to a woman and then walks towards
a girl staring at a dead little bird the
girl becomes sad on seeing the little
bird dead gemma tries to explain to her
that it's nature and this is the way
things work the kid molly is called by
her mother and she leaves telling gemma
goodbye
tom gemma's boyfriend climbs down the
tree and digs a small hole to bury the
bird he changes his shirt at gemma's
request and leads to meet a real estate
agent to find a new home for them they
enter the real estate office while
talking to each other about gemma's
mother
the representative martin welcomes them
and makes an introduction with the two
martin tells gemma and tom about yonder
and describes it as something that has
everything to offer he tells them of
building a diverse community in yonder
to make it a nice blend when gemma asks
martin about the location of yonder he
says it is near enough and is far enough
just a right distance martin invites
them to join him on tour to the yonder
community tom hesitates but is convinced
to go while martin takes his keys and
leads the way they enjoy a song on their
way they enter yonder when tom says
let's get it over with martin welcomes
them and takes them to house number nine
he describes it as an ideal home and
asks gemma and tom to have a look he
takes them to the kitchen through the
living room and presents them a bottle
of champagne with a few strawberries
which they don't take he then takes them
to a kid's room painted blue and asks
the couple if they have any kids gemma
tells him that they don't have any
children yet martin escorts them to the
back garden and sneaks out from behind
while they're checking it out gemma asks
a question and finds martin missing so
she goes back inside to find him they
find martin's car gone tom says let's
get out of this place they get in the
car and start driving they are talking
about martin's weird behavior when they
realize they are going around in a loop
and keep ending up in front of house
number nine tom asks gemma to move over
and starts driving looking for a way out
of yonder they find no cell phone
coverage in the area they try again and
again but end up coming back to the same
place tom lights up a cigarette and
stress gemma says it goes on and on and
on after spending the whole day looking
for a way out the car runs out of gas so
they stop at house number nine and go
inside they get the bottle of wine out
of the fridge along with the
strawberries they drink the wine and
find it has no taste the strawberries
are also tasteless they're trying to
sleep in the room when gemma talks about
the complete silence in the morning tom
climbs up to the house's roof and finds
an endless row of identical houses he
says to gemma that they'll follow the
sun they'll jump over the fences and do
whatever it takes to get out they start
moving on foot this time gemma and tom
jump over fences follow the sun and
spend all day moving around looking for
a way out tom stops to rest when gemma
spots light coming out of a house they
call out to see if anyone's there and
then enter the house they realize it's
the same house number nine that they
left in the morning they find the empty
champagne bottle and strawberries lying
on the floor just like they left them
they go outside and find a box they open
it and find some tasteless vacuum-packed
food tommy comes angry sets the house on
fire and tells gemma that he's sending
out a smoke signal they both sit on the
sidewalk and watch the house burn when
gemma and tom wake up they find another
box lying in front of them gemma opens
the box and finds a baby boy inside she
turns over the box and it says raise it
and be released they look at the house
and see that it's unaffected by the fire
they write the word help on the roof
gemma and tom are in their bed when the
baby boy who has turned into a kid looks
at them he starts imitating them both he
starts screaming when gemma and tom give
him some milk and cereal gemma measures
its height on day 98 and notices its
rapid growth the boy continues imitating
them and runs around making a woof woof
sound the boy calls gemma his mother
when she tells him i am not your mother
and i don't know who is the boy
continues to act like a dog making
noises moving around all three of them
follow the same routine every day they
give the boy some breakfast have it
themselves and leave the empty box
outside gemma says to tom that boy is
always watching tom tells gemma that
it's not a boy when she leaves to get
some coffee for him tom throws a
cigarette on the grass when it clears
the patch he starts digging gemma joins
him but tells him that it's pointless
but tom asks her to let him do it gemma
notices that the box is gone and asks
the boy about it but the boy doesn't
answer gemma watches tom dig all day
when he comes back she asks him why were
you digging all day tom tells her about
finding a path that will lead them
somewhere they're making out while the
boy watches them through the door tom
continues digging while the boy keeps
making the noises the boy watches tv
which shows some bizarre patterns and
lines tom is sitting in the car when
gemma joins him tom tells her how much
he loves the smell of the vehicle and
how real it feels the radio turns on and
they realize that the car's battery is
still good gemma steps out of the car
and starts dancing to the song tom
increases the volume and joins gemma
they both are dancing when the boy comes
out of the house and looks at them the
boy joins them when he hits tom and tom
falls he becomes angry and pushes the
boy tom leaves in anger and goes into
the house gemma takes the boy to the
room and tells him that they can't stay
with him all the time
people need privacy and he should
understand it boy calls her mother and
gemma continues telling him that she is
not his mother the boy starts screaming
when gemma yells at him and asks him
what he wants the boy continues shouting
and imitating her gemma asks him to shut
up and leaves she hugs tom in the bed
while they go to sleep following the
same routine they're having their
breakfast gemma asks tom about his plans
with digging in the yard tom tells them
he is going to dig and leaves the room
tom hears fain shrieking from the ground
and puts his ear to hear it he's
sleeping in the room when the sound of
the tv wakes him he goes down and finds
the boy watching tv gemma turns the tv
off but the boy turns it on again tom
and gemma leave the room in frustration
the following day the boy is screaming
while gemma is trying to get him
breakfast tom is putting bread in the
toaster when he comes to the boy picks
up the cereal bowl and throws it on the
wall tom drags the boy to the car and
locks a minute he gets gemma inside the
house she yells at him for not helping
the creature gemma asks tom for the keys
but he refuses to give them to her tom
says you are acting like his mother i am
not gonna let you help it if they want
it alive they will come and get him
gemma tells tom of the possibility of
them not coming and that they will have
to watch the boy die for no reason gemma
snatches the keys from tom and gets the
boy out of the car she tells him that no
one will hurt him and takes him inside
tom continues digging while gemma
watches him from a window
she says to the boy soon he will get
tired and go to sleep you should also
sleep now she tells the boy about dreams
but he says i never had one she asked
him to close his eyes and try to have a
dream she lies beside the boy the boy
hugs her from behind when they both go
to sleep in the morning gemma and the
boy are coming down the stairs when tom
leaves tom has breakfast alone while
gemma spends time with the boy she says
you are a mystery and i'm gonna solve
you as they lie under the sky the boy
asks gemma about the clouds she says
where i'm from clouds come in all shapes
and sizes some of them look like faces
and some of them look like dogs gemma
and the boy make a woof sound when gemma
howls gemma tries to sleep when she
cries alone while tom also cries and the
pity is digging in the morning gemma
finds the boy missing she looks
everywhere and then goes out and asks
tom if he saw the boy he tells her he
doesn't know gemma goes out to find him
she looks around but spots no one when
she comes back to the house she finds
the boy standing there with a book gemma
goes through the book and sees pictures
and something written in a strange
language gemma asks the boy where he was
he says that he's not allowed to tell
her that gemma tricks the boy into
playing a game where he has to imitate
everyone he has ever met the boy mimics
gemma tom the dog and when gemma asks
him to imitate the person he met today
he makes strange rasping sounds and
inflates his throat sacks gemma becomes
scared and starts screaming the boy is
now a man gemma is serving him breakfast
while he continues to ask her questions
she sets a tray and carries it to the
room she gives tom some food and then
helps him take a bath the boy leaves the
house while gemma follows him gemma
loses him she hears the footsteps but
fails to see where he is gemma comes
back home and sits on the pavement
tom finds a dead body in the hole while
digging and immediately comes out of the
hole gemma is walking when she loses
sight of the house she calls for tom and
he calls her back when they get back
home and try to go into the house they
find it locked gemma asks the man to
open the door and let them in but he
ignores her they spend the night in the
car the following morning gemma knocks
at the door and the boy comes out she
asks him to help them because of tom's
worsening condition but he leaves by
saying maybe it's time he is released
gemma and tom are sitting outside the
house when they start talking about the
first time they met tom says i'm glad
that guy stood you up tom says to gemma
i'm home right now when he goes silent
gemma tries to wake him up but realizes
he is not breathing gemma starts crying
over tom's body the man comes back with
a box gemma opens it and finds a body
bag she starts crying and screaming
while the man packs tom's body in the
bag and throws it in the hole that tama
dug gemma sleeps in the car when she
wakes up she sees the man leaving she
gets out of the car silently and hits
the creature with an axe he is injured
when he shrieks and starts running gemma
follows it and crashes through the door
into a red tinted house where another
boy is seen watching television patterns
while a different woman sobs at the
kitchen table gemma sinks through the
floor into a green bedroom where a
couple is having sex and another boy
watches and claps gemma is sucked
through the wall and into a purple
bathroom where a man has committed
suicide she lands back in number nine
week and moaning she goes outside and
looks around finding herself between the
identical houses and starts crying she
is lying in a vacuum body bag asking
what am i the boy tells gemma that
mothers prepare their sons for the world
and then they die he zips the body back
drags it down the stairs and throws
gemma in the pit along with tom he puts
the sand back in the hole and makes it
even he puts fuel in the car and gets
out of yonder he heads towards the real
estate officer martin who's older now he
goes inside and martin hands him the
badge which he pins on his shirt pocket
martin dies and the man puts his body in
a vacuum bag folds it up and places it
in a file drawer he sits at martin's
desk and smiles another couple enters
the room and starts looking around while
the man stands up to talk to them the
story ends with the man standing smiling
at the couple